# NodeJS_Async
 Node.js Async  Node.js is a server-side platform built on Google Chrome's JavaScript Engine (V8 Engine) and its latest version is v0.10.36.  Node.js uses an event-driven, non-blocking I/O model that makes it lightweight and efficient, perfect for data-intensive real-time applications that run across distributed devices.  Node.js is an open source, cross-platform runtime environment for developing server-side and networking applications.   Node.js applications are written in JavaScript, and can be run within the Node.js runtime on OS X, Microsoft Windows, and Linux.  ## Features of Node.js:  The following are some of the important features that make Node.js the first choice of software architects;  > Asynchronous and Event Driven − All APIs of Node.js library are asynchronous, that is, non-blocking. It essentially means a Node.js based server never waits for an API to return data. The server moves to the next API after calling it and a notification mechanism of Events of Node.js helps the server to get a response from the previous API call.  > Very Fast − Being built on Google Chrome's V8 JavaScript Engine, Node.js library is very fast in code execution.  > Single Threaded but Highly Scalable − Node.js uses a single threaded model with event looping. Event mechanism helps the server to respond in a non-blocking way and makes the server highly scalable as opposed to traditional servers which create limited threads to handle requests. Node.js uses a single threaded program and the same program can provide service to a much larger number of requests than traditional servers like Apache HTTP Server.  > No Buffering − Node.js applications never buffer any data. These applications simply output the data in chunks.   ## Topics explored in this script include;  > Buffering using Buffers > App Scaling using Child Processing techniques > Express Frameworks > Events Emitters > File System IO > RESTful APIs > Application Scaling Using > Piping Streams > Web Modules (Client and Server) > REPL Commands > Node Package Manager (NPM)  ## The following are the areas where Node.js is proving itself as a perfect technology partner;  > I/O bound Applications > Data Streaming Applications > Data Intensive Real-time Applications (DIRT) > JSON APIs based Applications > Single Page Applications   Presented by Vakindu Philliam.
